=== PAGE 1 ===
FFEE
FF
EE
II
GG
NN
LL
OO
DD
LL
DD
II
BB
FF
EE
LL
EE
EE
OO
EE
PP
CC
NN
KK
EE
SS
RR
GGYY
PSYCHOSOMATIC ENERGETICS
PRACTITIONER‘S
GUIDE
EMVITA® , CHAVITA®, ANXIOVITA® , NEUROVITA® ,
SIMVITA® , PARAVITA® , GEOVITA®
® REGISTERED TRADEMARKS
by Dr. Reimar Banis (Switzerland)
and Dr. Birgitt Holschuh-Lorang (Germany)
Specialists in General Medicine and Naturopathy
© Rubimed USA Inc.
Distributed by Privia Naturals LLC
Website: www.privianaturals.com.
E-Mail: info@privianaturals.com
Phone: +1(986) 203-6974
This brochure is intended solely for PSE specialists
=== PAGE 2 ===
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
22 Restless, mentally hyperactive 8
Note 2 23 Tense 8
What is Psychosomatic Energetics? 3 24 Uneasiness, discomfort 9
Testing and Therapeutic Agents of
Psychosomatic Energetics 3 CHAKRA 7:
The 28 Conflicts of Psychosomatic 25 Mistrust 9
Energetics 4-10 26 Materialistic 9
27 Unwilling to face reality 10
CHAKRA 1: 28 Wrong thinking 10
1 Independence 4
2 Lack of Concentration 4 COMPOSITION:
3 At the mercy of, helpless 4 Brief overview of the 28 Emvita®
4 Extremely self-controlled 4 Emotional Remedies 11-15
Prescribing the Complexes
CHAKRA 2:
5 Hectic, nervous 5 COMPOSITION:
6 Perseverance 5 The 7 Chavita® Chakra remedies 16
7 Show of strength, stubborn 5
COMPOSITION:
CHAKRA 3: Indication for the 4 Acute Agents
8 Isolated 5 Anxiovita® , Neurovita® , Simvita® ,
9 Pent-up emotions 5 Paravita® , and Geovita® 18
10 Wanting more 6
11 Craving good feelings 6 Dosage 19
General Information 19
CHAKRA 4: Placing orders – Therapists 19
12 Mental overexertion 6 Bibliography 20
13 Withdrawn, deeply injured 6 Graphic: The Seven Energy Centers and
14 Introverted, compulsive 7 their Associated Conflicts 21
15 Apprehensive 7
16 Panic 7
NOTE The medications presented here are part of the therapeutic orientation
of Psychosomatic Energetics, which, according to mainstream medicine, are
CHAKRA 5:
not scientifically accepted. In particular, scientifically-oriented mainstream
17 Emotional emptiness 7 medicine disputes the existence of subtle energy, the so-called energy levels
18 Rushed 7 and the disturbances arising therefrom, e.g. the Chakras or human geopathic
stress burdens. The following indications correspond to the homeopathic
medication picture. All statements made here, in particular regarding the
CHAKRA 6: named indications, are based exclusively on the theories of the therapeutic
19 Timid, faint-hearted 8 methods of psychosomatic energetics. The information in this brochure relies
on complementary health experiences of various health care practitioners, but
20 Self-sufficient 8
has not been evaluated by the FDA and Health Canada.
21 Physical overexertion 8
=== PAGE 3 ===
WHAT IS PSYCHOSOMATIC ENERGETICS?
Psychosomatic Energetics (PSE: psyche = soul, soma = body, pictures. This is thus a special form of homeopathy subject
energetics = energy) is a method developed by the German to a different set of rules and regularities. The particularly
general practitioner Dr. Reimar Banis. high potentiations of the PSE complexes are necessary to
address the various conflict levels energetically and to dis-
PSE arose out of the realization that many complaints and solve them through resonance.
serious illnesses are based on mental disturbances manifes-
ted in the body and the subtle energy field. After years of TESTING AND THERAPEUTIC
observation and research, the method was first presented in
AGENTS OF PSE
1997. Today, PSE is being applied in more than 20 coun-
tries worldwide, and is considered to be one of the leading
complementary-medicine procedures. It is taught as ongoing Chavita® 1 to 7 = Chakra remedies
education according to a standardized system subject to Emvita® 1 to 28 = Emotional remedies
quality control. The training course culminates in the title of Acute remedies = Anxiovita® , Neurovita® , Simvita® ,
„Certified Energy Therapist“ Paravita®
In the view of PSE, an adequately strong and harmonious Geovita® = Geopathy remedy
flow of life energy is essential to the maintenance of health
and overall well-being. Repressed emotional traumas (con- Overall energy (Vital) corresponds to a person‘s physical and
flicts) store away a lot of life energy, thereby hindering the regenerative powers. Patients with a low Vital reading are
normal flow of life energy. usually tired and don‘t recover adequately during sleep from
their daily work and tasks.
With the RebaPad - Test Device and the energy test perfor-
med with it, general (Vital), Emotional, Mental, and intuitive Emotional energy corresponds to a patient‘s mood and
(Causal) energy can be tested and thereby made perceptible. mental resilience. Patients with a low Emotional reading feel
The goal of the application is normalization of the patient‘s sad, irritable, lacking in drive and emotionally exhausted. An
energy levels by eliminating the energy blocks which are to a Emotional reading of 30% or less is often associated with
great extent caused by the emotional conflicts depression.
PSE subdivides the emotional injuries into 28 themes desig- Mental energy corresponds to a person‘s mental presence,
nated as „Conflicts“. Every person‘s history includes personal which enables a person to take care of daily work efficiently,
injuries – whether remembered or not. Many traumas are purposefully and effectively, maintaining good concentrati-
only partially processed, and they continue to exist more or on. Patients with low Mental readings have trouble con-
less subconsciously. They influence our behavior, put a brake centrating, are easily distracted and not very centered. Very
on our growth and/or impose a burden on our health. low Mental readings, e.g. less than 30%, can indicate the
presence of contextual mental disorders.
Homeopathic compound remedies are used in the diagnosis
and therapy of these conflicts. The complexes consist of mi- The highest-vibrating intuitive energy (Causal) corresponds
neral and plant substances, as well as animal organ parts, in to intuition and a person‘s inner sensitivity. The higher a
homeopathic form. In the experience of PSE, these remedies person‘s Causal reading, the more sensitive and intuitive
are able to free from the subconscious the unavailable ener- that person is, and the more connected to the world and
gy which the unconscious emotional conflicts have stored other people.
away, and to eliminate the conflicts energetically within
weeks or months. In this manner, the bound energy is once
more at the patient‘s disposal.
SSiinnccee tthhee ccoommpplleexxeess aarree ccoommpplleetteellyy aabbssoorrbbeedd vviibbrraattiioonnaallllyy
bbyy tthhee ccoonnfflliicctt,, bbyy tthhee wwaayy,, tthheerree aarree nnoo hhoommeeooppaatthhiicc ddrruugg
=== PAGE 4 ===
THE 28 CONFLICTS OF PSYCHOSOMATIC ENERGETICS
CONFLICTS IN THE FIRST CHAKRA CONFLICT 3 – AT THE MERCY OF, HELPLESS
Weak-willed, helpless as a child, bedwetting, encopresis,
incontinence
The first energy center in the lower pelvis connects a person
to the ground through the legs, just as it stands emotionally
One feels helpless and in every way paralyzed. The stronger
for grounding and independence. A disturbed first Chakra is
the demands, the more unable one feels to arrive at any kind
associated with insufficient grounding, disrupted self-confi-
of solution. Life is experienced as a never-ending struggle.
dence, identity problems and a lack of basic trust.
In the past, especially during childhood, one was seldom
allowed to be oneself and always felt completely dependent
upon others. One has never been seen as what one truly is.
CONFLICT 1 – INDEPENDENCE
In a social environment, one only feels accepted when living
A feeling of „not being good enough“, feelings of inferiority,
up to role expectations.
disrupted basic trust, often puberty conflicts
One tends to live as a puppet and a willing tool for others.
One feels not good enough, have identity problems. Pri-
One has learned from experience that exercising one‘s
mary emotional orientation, in the sense of sufficient
talents, strengths and needs will be punished; therefore, one
self-confidence is lacking. Basic trust has been lost or was
underrates oneself totally.
never there. A frequent tendency to melancholy. The world is
experienced as bad. Frequent among children with early-
One tends to lethargy and immobility, has the tendency to
childhood shocks such as divorce, death of a parent, neglect,
dither, be undecided, play for time, leave things up in the air,
unplanned child. An unhappy childhood, when, for example,
postpone everything to the last minute or, in the extreme
a daughter was born when the parents were actually hoping
case, give up altogether.
for a son and heir.
A lack of inner strength with which to deal with exter-
CONFLICT 4 - EXTREMELY SELF-CONTROLLED
nally-imposed stresses. Incapable of perceiving one‘s own
Numbness, suppression of joie de vivre, exaggerated sense
strength. One feels smaller than one is and has a tendency
of duty and responsibility. In the extreme, destructive
to close oneself off from others and not to enter into me-
aggressiveness, perversions, psychopathic (extreme form).
aningful relationships.
One does not allow oneself to grow and live one‘s own life.
One was held back from the normal childhood joy of expan-
CONFLICT 2 - LACK OF CONCENTRATION
sion and was possibly too rigidly disciplined. There are often
Distracted, lost in thought, wistful, ungrounded
problems with sexual identity. One would like to salvage a
destroyed family environment by being well-behaved. One is
The person affected yearns to be somewhere else entirely.
governed by discipline which was applied too early and too
One is not really here, doesn‘t know one‘s purpose in life.
much, and even as a child one acts like an adult. One tends
This conflict also applies in the case of an inner resistance,
to suppress feelings and impulses. One blocks one‘s emo-
of unwillingly having to be in this world. One lives one‘s life
tions or those of others.
halfheartedly, lacking complete conviction. One doesn‘t trust
oneself to show one‘s capabilities. In stress situations and
Only compulsion, rationality and good behavior have top
when one‘s abilities and strengths would be put to the test,
priority. One expects one’s own strict view of life from others
one tends to retreat. Inclination to postpone things or do
as well. One is afraid of yielding to spontaneity, freedom and
them reluctantly.
joy in life, because this is associated with great danger to
oneself and others.
A person like this often feels unapproachable and flat in hu-
man encounters. One is not aware of one‘s strengths. Only a
The second Chakra has to do with the realization of one‘s
fraction of one‘s inner possibilities are realized. Deep inside,
own interests in a social context. Should one fight or flee,
one is stubbornly stuck in a kind of passive resistance.
invest more or less energy to attain one‘s goals? Whoever
does not know this becomes restless and disoriented, fights
things out convulsively or compensates weakness with a
show of strength.
=== PAGE 5 ===
CONFLICTS IN THE SECOND CHAKRA
CONFLICT 5 – HECTIC, NERVOUS CONFLICT 7 - SHOW OF STRENGTH, STUBBORN
Hectic, hyperkinetic symptoms, upset, nervous, driven and Goes beyond one‘s limits; always showing strength despite
restless. secretly feeling inferior; obstinate, arrogant, cocky.
Nervousness and drivenness, upset and restless. High physi- One‘s actual existence does not match up with one‘s self-
cal tension with a tendency to react with physical symptoms image. Secretly, one feels uncertain and inferior, but conce-
(somatization) to inner stress. One engages in hypernormal als it behind a façade of strong self-confidence. One does
activity, is ambitious and often hyperactive. Tendency to not let the outside world see what it‘s like inside.
obsessive perfection.
The actual symptoms and problems remain in the dark, as
One has the depressing impression of never properly coping one confuses and deceives others. One gets oneself tangled
and hardly ever being able to finish anything properly. One up in contradictions. There is a constant alternation between
courts the approval of others, because one sets one‘s inter- feelings of strength and weakness, thereby seeming erratic
nal bar too high. One feels responsible for the lives of others. and obscure to others. A possible variation of this behavior
One believes in only having a right to live by pushing oneself consists in cutting others down to size in order to magnify
to peak performance. If one doesn‘t stay in harness and oneself. The large external stresses and actual inner strength
alert, one fears losing control. Incapable of rest and relaxa- contrast sharply
tion. One wants to be everywhere at once so as not to miss
anything and in order to extract the most out of life.
CONFLICTS IN THE THIRD CHAKRA
CONFLICT 6 – PERSEVERANCE The third Chakra has to do with becoming sated and satis-
Wanting to be self-controlled and show no weakness despite fied by absorbing the outside world; one is nourished ma-
a feeling of helplessness; tendency to express anxiety terially and emotionally from outside and thereby satisfied.
through physical symptoms. One takes what one needs, asserting one‘s will and getting
one‘s way. When the third Chakra is disturbed, it leads to
Tendency to clothe anxiety in physical symptoms (somati- aggression inhibition and frustration. One withdraws from
zation). From the outside, one seems calm and controlled, the outside world and constantly wants more than one gets.
yet is apprehensive inside. One worries about inner security,
but does not want to admit it. One must act strong and
courageous toward oneself and others. Feeling of constant CONFLICT 8 - ISOLATED
overexertion, despite basically feeling much weaker and
Joyless, feeling abandoned, unhappy, self-pitying.
constantly exceeding one‘s limits.
Emotionally, one lives on an island, as it were, surrounded
One is incapable of saying no to new demands, and therefo-
by strangers. One would like to make contact but cannot
re winds up being saddled with more than one can manage.
get close to the others. One feels isolated, like an outcast,
One is too weak to get rid of the overload and grant oneself
although there are many people all around. One lacks the
the necessary rest and relaxation. One is convinced of only
capability to communicate with others in a satisfactory
being loved and appreciated when one fulfills one‘s duties.
manner. The resulting feeling of isolation leads to inner
One believes that only strong and capable persons have any
paralysis and lethargy.
right to live. Showing weakness and being disheartened
means having no right to live.
Therefore, one does not even begin to rebel against the
intolerable state of affairs. One becomes emotionally very
quiet and lifeless.
=== PAGE 6 ===
CONFLICT 9 - PENT-UP EMOTIONS CONFLICT 11 – CRAVING GOOD FEELINGS
Extremely pent-up destructive rage, all too ready to conform Deeply dissatisfied, frustrated, profoundly unhappy, in the
and sacrifice, in the extreme sudden outbursts of rage, going extreme addiction, anorexia, bulimia.
berserk.
One is deeply dissatisfied and empty. The unhappiness of
One tries to win the sympathy and affection of others with frustration easily gives rise to a counterreaction which
an especially pleasant and obliging personality. One con- consists of refusing to notice one‘s frustration and to act
stantly adapts oneself to the needs of others and tries to carefree and lighthearted. The feeling of constant emotional
satisfy their desires. In the process, one denies one‘s own hunger develops into unreal fantasies and a nagging feeling
goals, which leads to subliminal resentment and, in time, to of drivenness. Without being aware of it, one tends to bring
a mountain of unfulfilled desires. about situations which repeat frustrating experiences and,
for instance, lead to rejection.
What others think of one is extremely important. One‘s
victim role irresistibly attracts victimizers. One unwittin- Many lapse into a subservient role so as to experience sa-
gly manages to get others to behave egotistically towards tisfaction indirectly via the satisfaction of others, but that‘s
counterparts. One tends to exceed one‘s limits and overtax not truly fulfilling, so that one becomes even more unhap-
oneself. One dreams about being richly rewarded for this py. Sometimes tendency to addiction and dependencies of
sometime in the future, but this never happens in reality various kinds.
and simply provokes more disappointment. One suffers from
a nagging feeling of dissatisfaction and great rage. One is
quick to get annoyed and angry, one‘s frustration limit is CONFLICTS IN THE FOURTH CHAKRA
quite low. Thus, one often remains stuck in anger instead of
daring to try a new approach.
The heart represents the energetic center of the „Self“, an
emotional core of individual perception and personal deve-
CONFLICT 10 - WANTING MORE lopment, having to do with loving trust, mental power and
Insatiable due to a nagging feeling of dissatisfaction and playful-spontaneous self-realization. When the heart center
greed, constantly dissatisfied, co-opting, extremely obsessed is disturbed, it leads to a feeling of total retreat, of being
with power, dictatorial, ruthless, driven, overly aggressive. captive, and of crippling and (over the longer term) stre-
nuous lack of orientation, behind which are concealed great
Due to a nagging feeling of dissatisfaction and a lack of fears of being hurt or completely destroyed.
happy feelings, one constantly wants more out of life. At
bottom, one feels desperately poor and needy. In one‘s ex-
perience, everything in life has to be worked hard for; if one CONFLICT 12 - MENTAL OVEREXERTION
has something and wants to become something in life, then Because trust is disrupted, constant thoughts of problems
nothing comes free. What one has or has achieved, however, and failure; difficulty gathering one‘s thoughts.
is never enough, so one is forced to always take more. Good
fortune is presumably lurking just beyond the next turn in One thinks that an effort of will can bring all moods and
the road, which is why one is driven to keep going. emotions under control. The need for control is a high-
er priority than the spontaneous expression of emotions.
One‘s self image tries to conceal the inner hunger from However, due to the fact that over 80% of human commu-
oneself and others by projecting the exact opposite outward. nication is nonverbal – i.e. takes place subconsciously – one
The hunger for more life can consist of the piling up of overburdens oneself constantly and cannot maintain control
material or nonmaterial objects and energies. There is also over the multitude of one‘s own impulses.
often the desire for more depth and intensity in life, but this
is never really satisfied. One tires easily and has the feeling that one is no longer
able to concentrate at all. One suspects that one has taken
on what is „actually an impossible task“ and tends to flee
inward. This tendency has a paralyzing effect and leads to
the inability to keep the mind fully focused on a subject.
Thoughts of problems or failure predominate, and there is a
lack of trust in oneself and others.
=== PAGE 7 ===
CONFLICT 13 – WITHDRAWN, DEEPLY INJURED CONFLICT 16 - PANIC
Gutshot, deeply injured and withdrawn, uninterested, My heart is breaking, as if overrun by a dreadful huge wave,
self-involved, in the extreme autistically egocentric, bad panic attacks, fear of death.
regression.
One feels overwhelmed by an overpowering fear of
One feels deeply offended and believes that one can never death like a gigantic tidal wave. One cannot put up any
again get over a severe injury and offense. Rejection by resistance whatsoever to this powerful fear, but rather feels
another person, who does not reciprocate these feelings, totally paralyzed. It feels like the final hour has come and
has been a severe blow. One not only feels injured but also everything is conclusively over, so that one can no longer
humiliated and ridiculed. One withdraws anxiously from gather any clear thoughts. One seems incapable of escaping
other people because one expects nothing good to come of the inevitable catastrophe. In one‘s imagination, the fear
it. One begins to put up walls around one‘s tender soul, and takes on monstrous dimensions.
pulls in like a snail into its shell.
CONFLICTS IN THE FIFTH CHAKRA
CONFLICT 14 – INTROVERTED, COMPULSIVE The neck, as control center in the confrontation between
Cramped and tense; fear of going crazy; difficulty breathing, reason and emotion, rational and irrational, duty and desire,
inability to take a deep breath; wounded and withdrawn, has, as an energy center, two conflicts which are, from a
feeling of isolation behind walls of hopelessness. content standpoint, quite contrary. If the confrontation
tends toward the rational pole, then a conflict forms with an
One has isolated oneself from the outside world and feels overexcited hyperactivity; if it tends toward the emotional
trapped behind walls, hopeless. One‘s thoughts go around in pole, it gives rise to a conflict with a great inner emptiness
circles and one feels more and more miserable. The isolation and rigidity.
from others does not feel protective; instead one feels under
overwhelming compulsion and permanent pressure. One‘s
mental freedom of motion is extremely restricted, such that CONFLICT 17 - EMOTIONAL EMPTINESS
one feels suspicious and fearful. The suffocating feeling can
Empty of thoughts and feelings, no initiative, indifferent,
be felt physically, emotionally or mentally. Often, the cause
emotional emptiness, uncaring, emotions feel frozen.
of the emotional withdrawal is a huge emotional shock
which, at the time, feels insurmountable and too frightening.
The neck, the „gateway to feelings“, can choke off rising
One then walls oneself into an emotional fortress – which,
emotions in such a manner as to bring about a condition
however, over the longer term is not experienced as
of complete emotional rigidity. One is then completely
protection but rather as compulsion.
dominated and guided by the head, as if nothing really
affected one anymore – almost like a robot. However, the
reality is that the suppressed feelings have simply been
CONFLICT 15 - APPREHENSIVE deep-frozen and have not really gone away. Often the
Eerie-frightful, abandoned, extremely anxious, phobias, rising feelings are bound up with emotional shocks and
woebegone and full of worries, fear of abandonment, strong inner terror, so that the emotional play-dead reflex
timorous. instinctively guarantees survival.
One feels abandoned in a threatening-feeling world. Deep With this kind of emotional block, one has very limited
inside, one feels timorous and would desperately like to slink access to one‘s feelings, while rationality seems to continue
away. The threat can consist of a great worry which goes working undisturbed. This can lead to someone reporting
too much to heart and whose consequences cripple self- on terrible events in a very indifferent manner, such that
initiative. Because of one‘s weakness, one thinks that the listeners get the impression that the reporter is not affected
heart might stop beating at any moment. One is uptight and by the events. But the thing is that he is in an emotional
constantly under tension. state of shock which splits off emotion from reason, giving
rise to a false impression. Many patients with this conflict
There is a very fundamental fear that can be directed at feel a great inner emptiness that can have a very depressive
real objects, and yet is also experienced diffusely and quite feeling-tone and last for a very long time.
generally. In this context, many people develop a fear of
fear, which can be seen as a kind of emotional „echo“ with
an amplifying effect.
=== PAGE 8 ===
CONFLICT 18 – RUSHED One views the outside world exclusively as an extension of
Impulsive, overexcited, stuttering; the feeling of living a life oneself and therefore above all revolves around one‘s own
that is false at its core; thoughts outrunning actions, thereby issues and desires. One believes that one can do everything
causing misunderstandings on the communications level. by oneself best of all. One‘s self-satisfaction can degene-
rate into narcissism, yet also be concealed by a display of
In the neck region (gateway to emotions) strong impulses modesty.
and drives can build up like a torrent, so that a frightened
feeling rises up and one feels literally overrun. Since too Deep inside, one is unsure of oneself and feels unloved,
many intense impulses and contradictory desires are all ac- which one tries to compensate with exaggerated self-love.
tive at the same time, one comes across to others as hasty, Some people with this conflict suffer from severe mood
overexcited and ill-organized. swings and are irritable because of the.resulting intense
emotional tension.
Many compensate their inner anxieties with exertion,
perfectionism and control in the form of compulsions. Those CONFLICT 21 - PHYSICAL OVEREXERTION
affected suffer from not being able to make themselves Restlessly tense; chewing fingernails; sympathicotonically
clearly understood. They keep trying to make others finally overdriven, irritable; unable to relax; physically restless,
grasp what it‘s actually all about, talking ever faster. There constantly overburdened.
also often arises an inner restlessness which is not noticed
on the outside. People with the theme „Rushed“ therefore One feels rushed and exhausted because one is overstressed.
often seen from the outside to be very cool and collected, One constantly exceeds one‘s limits to a harmful degree. One
because they‘re good at covering up their restlessness. has the feeling of always having to be on one‘s toes and of
not daring to grant oneself very much rest and relaxation.
CONFLICTS IN THE SIXTH CHAKRA One suppresses one‘s own needs and goes to great lengths
to be the best.
In the sixth energy Center, a person‘s individual needs are
coordinated with the outside world. As in the second Chakra, way down deep, one feels unloved and worthless, so that
this involves a complex regulatory system and, ultimately, one has to make an effort to be of service to others. One has
the „fight or flight“ decision. When this harmonious equi- a tendency to be too driven and tense, which in the extreme
librium breaks down, it gives rise to the typical conflicts of case can lead to auto-aggressive displacement activity. So-
the sixth Chakra: restlessness, tension, discomfort, timidity, metimes there are long-lasting pain states and other alarm
egotism or, as compensation, subservience. signals in the form of somatization or behavioral disorders
which point to permanent emotional overstress.
CONFLICT 19 – TIMID, FAINT-HEARTED
Not wanting to see things clearly, diplomatic, undecided,
poor decision-making ability; fear of making a mistake, CONFLICT 22 – RESTLESS, MENTALLY
unwilling to see things clearly. HYPERACTIVE
Constant worry without letup, mental nervousness,
The actual underlying causes of indecisiveness are, one, the restlessness due to constant drivenness and a torrent of
fear of making mistakes and, two, the hope that there might thoughts, worries and uncertainty make it hard to breathe.
be a better option. Maneuvering and indecision are based on
the inability to weigh with a clear view the advantages of Inside, it‘s like being in a heavy current, whereby one‘s
various possibilities relative to each other. One timidly att- thoughts flow constantly and uncontrollably. Thoughts whirl
empts to do right by everyone and avoid any confrontation. nonstop through one‘s head, leading to a condition of inner
One expends a lot of effort to behave diplomatically, while unrest and drivenness, because one has too many wor-
not noticing that one is suppressing one‘s own impulses and ries and apprehensions. One would really like to deal with
desires. One goes around in circles without making any real everything at once. One worries about missing something
progress. crucial. One has a constant feeling of uncertainty and great
worrying, is irritable and feels driven.
CONFLICT 20 – SELF-SUFFICIENT
One‘s thoughts revolve exclusively around oneself and one‘s
own issues; unassuming, obsequious, false pride, enormous
self-love, self-uncertain, mood swings with a lack of self-
control; in the extreme stuck-up and conceited, revolving
only about oneself, narcissism.
=== PAGE 9 ===
CONFLICT 23 – TENSE CONFLICTS IN THE SEVENTH CHAKRA
Completely tensed up, helpless, impulsive, thoughts race
ahead of actions, tics, inner tension due to high demands on The seventh Chakra presents a very accurate portrayal of the
oneself, subconscious fear of failure. world, depicting one‘s own place in the world sensibly and
true to scale. Via this energy center, the content of attitudes
One feels constantly tensed up and incapable of relaxing. and feelings are properly balanced out, so that everything is
This can manifest itself in the form of involuntary tics, realistically represented. Disturbances of the seventh Chakra
writer‘s cramp or muscle tension (e.g. of the cervical verte- lead to misperceptions of reality in the form of imaginary
brae) but also in a cramped speaking style, gnashing one‘s and unreal idealizations, and unacknowledged pain that the
teeth and intestinal cramps. Sometimes, the tension mani- world is much worse than one had thought. Acquisitiveness
fests itself as overdone discipline and diligence. and mistrust are typical emotions of the seventh Chakra:
one prioritizes the façade of possessions above reality and
From the outside, such people often seem especially friendly basically thinks the worst of everyone.
and well-adjusted. The emotional background of the tension
is due to an overly strict Superego. In many cases, an age- CONFLICT 25 – MISTRUST
inappropriate degree of correctness and self-discipline was Withdrawn, grim, unwilling to give, lack of basic trust,
expected of one as a child. As with the other similar conflicts obstinate, questioning everything, sometimes being too
of the Brow Chakra, the tension is actually based on a fear guileless and trusting.
of making mistakes. Basically, one is too unforgiving and
strict with oneself even before any errors have been com- Because of disappointing experiences, one believes that
mitted. other people basically have it in for one. One imagines
oneself surrounded by a hostile environment whose only
CONFLICT 24 – UNEASINESS, DISCOMFORT goal is to inflict harm. In this process, one overlooks one‘s
Disturbing malaise on the somatic level, hopelessness, own part, projecting everything negative outward. People
depressive tendency. with this conflict sometimes put on an act of conspicuous
innocence and are not careful enough, which makes it easier
One feels unwell in one‘s own body, as if having to wear the for them to be disappointed by others, which then simply
wrong clothing, uncomfortable and annoying, which pinches reinforces the mistrust.
and presses everywhere. The body is felt to be the source
of indisposition, and in the extreme case, even of pain and The insoluble problem of mistrust is well pointed out by the
suffering. There can be all manner of possible disruptive American billionaire Paul Getty: „If you can trust a person,
discomforts, such as feeling that the head or hands are too then no contract is necessary. If you cannot trust him, then
large, the neck muscles way too heavy, or the spinal column the contract is useless.“
deformed. The prevailing mood varies from hopelessness all
the way to distinct depression. One feels unbalanced, since If one is too mistrustful, then (as in the case of the useless
everything is unpleasant and most of the body hurts. contract) one is, deep in one‘s heart, truly hopeless and
disappointed. One can often observe, in people with deep-
Due to the predominant somatic symptoms, the underlying seated mistrust, a fundamental lack of basic trust – eve-
depressive basic mood is often overlooked. Nevertheless, it rything is called into question (including the presence of
is the psychological malaise that generates the physiologi- this conflict!); everything is analyzed with a critical eye and
cal symptoms. The basis of the discomfort is a deep-seated dissected into its component parts. Inside, one refuses to
feeling of emotional frustration. One is dissatisfied or even open oneself up emotionally, as if this would then put one
hopeless. Deep inside, one feels unloved or even unlovable. at the complete mercy of someone or something.
=== PAGE 10 ===
CONFLICT 26 – MATERIALISTIC CONFLICT 28 - WRONG THINKING
Wanting everything for oneself, hard-nosed assertiveness, Obsessive, exaggerated mental fantasies, psychoses, false
acquisitiveness, miserliness, hypochondria, poverty dogmas and overly rigid beliefs, deep-seated self-esteem
obsession, thinking about possessions, egotism; sees life as a problems.
permanent struggle for survival.
Correct thinking leads to a consciousness in harmony both
People with this conflict often have a great fear of change. with outer and inner reality. On the other hand, if one culti-
They find it very difficult to let go of things and modes of vates erroneous thoughts which are condemned by the inner
behavior, or to give anything away. This possessiveness can voice (the conscience of the true self), then one inevitably
also apply to „having“ certain convictions, such as living in betrays oneself. The same thing happens when external
the belief that they are among the few who really „know reality is denied. The basic problem of wrong thinking is
what‘s what“. One can amass knowledge or spiritual values based on the refusal to acknowledge reality as such, in order
or good deeds as possessions, but deep inside a nagging to derive from it truthful and sensible laws of consciousness.
sense of frustration persists. One tends to think dogmatically and is preoccupied with
particular convictions. One is not prepared to deviate from
One is constantly seeking and, way down deep, not really one‘s own opinion, even if that means having to put up with
satisfied. There is often an extreme tendency to prioritize limitations and disadvantages.
external relationships and the maintenance of a façade over
inner values. In the worst case, it can even lead to an obses-
sion with poverty as well as to acquisitiveness, miserliness
and hard-nosed assertiveness.
CONFLICT 27 - UNWILLING TO FACE REALITY
Imagining things (visual, acoustic, olfactory); incapable of
clear sensory perception; drugs, hallucinations, flight into
dream worlds because reality is felt to be intolerable.
One cannot tolerate reality and therefore removes it from
perception. One behaves like a good actor, seducing the au-
dience into a strange, marvelously beautiful world, helping
them to forget their own unhappiness – except that here
audience and actor are one and the same. This is imagina-
tion running wild. Editing out reality can encompass some
aspects of the real world, for example when one over- or
underestimates the importance of another person. But one
can also consider one‘s entire reality, including its negative
aspects, to be so unpleasant that one flees into a dream
world.
Many people edit out parts of their inner or outer reality and
flee into ersatz dream worlds. Underlying this are emotional
misery and intolerable frustration which generate a gloomy
and joyless fundamental feeling-tone in the overall emotio-
nal situation, from which one tries to escape for reasons of
sheer survival. However, this does not change the basic pro-
blem, just one‘s viewpoint, as one pretends, in part, to exist
in a different reality. In trying to flee from the pain which
is inseparably bound up with being alive, one winds up ap-
plying a tourniquet to one‘s own liveliness. It is necessary to
realize that the pain only constitutes a limited part of reality,
and that life is much larger than the pain.
=== PAGE 11 ===
COMPOSITION OF THE 28 EMVITA® EMOTIONAL REMEDIES
Conflict naming and prescribing the complexes, Swiss name, drops and suppositories
CHAKRA 1
EMVITA® 1: EMVITA® 4:
Independence Extremely self-controlled
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
NNaajjaa NNaajjaa 2211XX AAppiiss mmeelliiffiiccaa 2211XX
PPuullssaattiillllaa 2211XX OOrrcchhiittiinnuumm 2211XX
OOoopphhoorriinnuumm 2211XX OOoopphhoorriinnuumm 2211XX
OOrrcchhiittiinnuumm 2211XX PPeettrroolleeuumm 1166LLMM
LLaacchheessiiss mmuuttuuss 1188LLMM PPllaattiinnuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 880000CC
KKaalliiuumm ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 880000CC SSttrraammoonniiuumm 1188LLMM
CCaallccaarreeaa ccaarrbboonniiccaa 1166 LLMM
CHAKRA 2
EMVITA® 2:
Lack of Concentration EMVITA® 5:
Hectic, nervous
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
CCaallccaarreeaa pphhoosspphhoorriiccaa 880000CC CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
CCuupprruumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 1188LLMM
OOoopphhoorriinnuumm 2211XX AAppiiss mmeelllliiffiiccaa 2211XX
OOrrcchhiittiinnuumm 2211XX OOrrcchhiittiinnuumm 2211XX
VVeerraattrruumm áállbbuumm 1166LLMM OOoopphhoorriinnuumm 2211XX
VViippeerraa bbeerruuss 2211XX PPeettrroolleeuumm 1166LLMM
PPllaattiinnuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 880000CC
SSttrraammoonniiuumm 1188LLMM
EMVITA® 3:
At the mercy of, helpless EMVITA® 6:
Perseverance
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AAppiiss mmeelliiffiiccaa 880000CC AArrsseenniiccuumm aallbbuumm 1188LLMM
BBoovviissttaa 2211XX GGllaanndduullaa ssuupprraarreennaalliiss 2211XX
CCoonniiuumm mmaaccuullaattuumm 1188LLMM LLaacchheessiiss mmuuttuuss 2211XX
HHeeppaarr ssuullpphh.. ccaallcc.. 1166LLMM PPhhoosspphhoorruuss 880000CC
OOoopphhoorriinnuumm 2211XX SSeeccaallee ccoorrnnuuttuumm 1166LLMM
OOrrcchhiittiinnuumm 2211XX
=== PAGE 12 ===
EMVITA® 7: EMVITA® 11:
Show of strength, stubborn Craving good feelings
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AAnnaaccaarrddiiuumm oocccciiddeennttaallee 1 188LLMM CCuupprruumm mmeettaalliiccuumm 2211XX
GGllaanndduullaa ssuupprraarreennaalliiss 2211XX FFeerrrruumm mmeettaalliiccuumm 8 80000CC
LLaacchheessiiss mmuuttuuss 8 80000CC IIggnnaattiiaa aammaarraa 1 188LLMM
LLyyccooppooddiiuumm 1 166LLMM PPaannccrreeaass 2211XX
PPhhoosspphhoorruuss 2211XX SSeeccaallee ccoorrnnuuttuumm 2211XX
CHAKRA 3 CHAKRA 4
EMVITA® 8: EMVITA® 12:
Isolated Mental overexertion
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AAmmmmoonniiuumm ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 8 80000CC AAppiiss mmeelllliiffiiccaa 8 80000CC
CCaallccaarreeaa ccaarrbboonniiccaa 2211XX BBaarryyttaa ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 1 188LLMM
CChhiinniinnuumm aarrsseenniiccoossuumm 1 188LLMM EEsscchhsscchhoollttzziiaa 2211XX
EEsscchhsscchhoollttzziiaa 2211XX GGrraapphhiitteess 2211XX
GGrraapphhiitteess 1 166LLMM IIggnnaattiiaa 1 166LLMM
PPaannccrreeaass 2211XX NNaajjaa NNaajjaa 8 80000CC
TThhyymmuuss ggllaanndd 2211XX
EMVITA® 9: EMVITA® 13:
Pent-up emotions Withdrawn, deeply injured
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
HHeeppaarr ssuullpphh.. CCaallcc.. 2211XX AAnnaaccaarrddiiuumm oocccciiddeennttaallee 2211XX
LLyyccooppooddiiuumm 8 80000CC BBootthhrrooppss 8 80000CC
PPaannccrreeaass 2211XX CCaallcciiuumm ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 1 166LLMM
SSuullpphhuurr 1 188LLMM GGrraapphhiitteess 1 188LLMM
TTaarreennttuullaa hhiissppaannaa 1 166LLMM TThhyymmuuss ggllaanndd 2211XX
EMVITA® 10:
EMVITA® 14:
Wanting more
Introverted, compulsive
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AAggnnuuss ccaassttuuss 2211XX CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AArruumm ttrriipphhyylllluumm 1 188LLMM CCaallcciiuumm ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 2211XX
HHeeppaarr ssuullpphh.. ccaallcc.. 8 80000CC HHyyoossccyyaammuuss nniiggeerr 2211XX
LLaacchheessiiss L LMM1166 MMoosscchhuuss 1 166LLMM
PPaannccrreeaass 2211XX PPlluummbbuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 2211XX
PPeettrroolleeuumm 2211XX SSttrraammoonniiuumm 8 80000CC
SSuullpphhuurr 1 188LLMM
TThhyymmuuss ggllaanndd 2211XX
=== PAGE 13 ===
EMVITA® 15: EMVITA® 18:
Apprehensive Rushed
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AAppiiss mmeelllliiffiiccaa 880000CC AAggaarriiccuuss mmuussccaarriiuuss 880000CC
LLaacchheessiiss mmuuttuuss 1188LLMM BBuuffoo rraannaa 2211XX
PPhhoosspphhoorruuss 2211XX CCuupprruumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 1188LLMM
TThhyymmuuss ggllaanndd 2211XX TThhyyrrooiiddiinnuumm 2211XX
ZZiinnccuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 1166LLMM IIooddiiuumm 2211XX
EMVITA® 16:
CHAKRA 6
Panic
EMVITA® 19:
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
Timid, faint-hearted
AAccoonniittuumm nnaappeelllluuss 880000CC
AAmmbbrraa ggrriisseeaa 1188LLMM
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
EEsscchhsscchhoollttzziiaa 1166LLMM
CCaallccaarreeaa ccaarrbboonniiccaa 2211XX
SSeeccaallee ccoorrnnuuttuumm 2211XX
HHyyppoopphhyyssiiss 2211XX
TThhyymmuuss ggllaanndd 2211XX
MMaaggnneessiiuumm ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 880000CC
ZZiinnccuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 2211XX
ZZiinnccuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 1188LLMM
CHAKRA 5
EMVITA® 17:
EMVITA® 20:
Emotional emptiness
Self-sufficient
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
BBaarryyttaa ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 2211XX
AAppiiss mmeelllliiffiiccaa 1188LLMM
CChhiinniinnuumm aarrsseenniiccoossuumm 880000CC
BBeellllaaddoonnnnaa 880000CC
GGrraapphhiitteess 1188LLMM
CCaanntthhaarriiss 2211XX
PPuullssaattiillllaa 2211XX
HHyyppoopphhyyssiiss 2211XX
TThhyyrrooiiddiinnuumm 2211XX
IIggnnaattiiaa aammaarraa 1166LLMM
MMaaggnneessiiuumm ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 2211XX
PPhhoosspphhoorruuss 2211XX
Pulsatilla 21X
=== PAGE 14 ===
CHAKRA 7
EMVITA® 21: EMVITA® 25:
Physical overexertion Mistrust
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AArrsseenniiccuumm aallbbuumm 2211XX CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
CChhaammoommiillllaa 1188LLMM CCoonniiuumm 880000CC
HHyyppoopphhyyssiiss 2211XX LLoobbeelliiaa iinnffllaattaa 1188LLMM
LLaacchheessiiss mmuuttuuss 880000CC LLyyccooppooddiiuumm 2211XX
MMaaggnneessiiuumm ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 2211XX MMaaggnneessiiuumm ccaarrbboonniiccuumm 1166LLMM
PPlluummbbuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 2211XX
EMVITA® 22: EMVITA® 26:
Restless, mentally hyperactive Materialistic (putting having before being)
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AAmmbbrraa ggrriisseeaa 2211XX AArrsseenniiccuumm aallbbuumm 880000CC
AAnnaaccaarrddiiuumm oocccciiddeennttaallee 1188LLMM CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
CChhaammoommiillllaa 880000CC LLyyccooppooddiiuumm 1166LLMM
CCrroottaalluuss hhoorrrriidduuss 2211XX MMiilllleeffoolliiuumm 2211XX
HHyyppoopphhyyssiiss 2211XX PPlluummbbuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 1188LLMM
IIooddiiuumm 1166LLMM
PPhhoosspphhoorruuss 2211XX
EMVITA® 23: EMVITA® 27:
Tense Unwilling to face reality
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AAggaarriiccuuss mmuussccaarriiuuss 2211XX AAnnaaccaarrddiiuumm oocccciiddeennttaallee 1188LLMM
CCuupprruumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 880000CC CCaallccaarreeaa ccaarrbboonniiccaa 2211XX
HHyyppoopphhyyssiiss 2211XX CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
RRhhuuss ttooxxiiccooddeennddrroonn 1188LLMM HHeelllleebboorruuss nniiggeerr 880000CC
MMaannddrraaggoorraa 1166LLMM
EMVITA® 24: EMVITA® 28:
Uneasiness, discomfort Wrong thinking
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
CChhaammoommiillllaa 1188LLMM CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
CCrroottaalluuss hhoorrrriidduuss 880000CC HHeelllleebboorruuss nniiggeerr 1188LLMM
HHyyppoopphhyyssiiss 2211XX HHyyoossccyyaammuuss nniiggeerr 2211XX
IIggnnaattiiaa aammaarraa 2211XX MMaannddrraaggoorraa 880000CC
PPhhoosspphhoorruuss 1166LLMM
=== PAGE 15 ===
COMPOSITION: THE SEVEN CHAVITA® CHAKRA REMEDIES
Swiss name, drops and suppositories
CHAVITA® 1 CHAVITA® 5
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
CCaarrbboo vveeggeettaabbiilliiss 5500CC PPhhoosspphhoorruuss 2211XX
OOlliibbaannuumm 2211XX TThhuujjaa oocccciiddeennttaalliiss 5500CC
OOoopphhoorriinnuumm 2211XX TThhyyrrooiiddiinnuumm 2211XX
OOrrcchhiittiinnuumm 2211XX VViioollaa ttrriiccoolloorr 2211XX
SSiilliicceeaa 2211XX
UUrrttiiccaa uurreennss 2211XX
CHAVITA® 6:
CHAVITA® 2
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
AArrggeennttuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 2211XX
PPlluummbbuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 2211XX
CCaauussttiiccuumm 220000CC
SSttaapphhiissaaggrriiaa 5500CC
GGllaanndduullaa ssuupprraarreennaalliiss 2211XX
VViissccuumm aallbbuumm 2211XX
JJuunniippeerruuss ccoommmmuunniiss 2211XX
LLaavvaanndduullaa aanngguusstt 2211XX
PPllaattiinnuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 5500CC
TThhuujjaa oocccciiddeennttaalliiss 2211XX
CHAVITA® 7:
CHAVITA® 3
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AAuurruumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 220000CC
CCoommppoossiittiioonn:: CCaallcciiuumm ssuullffuurriiccuumm 220000CC
AArrggeennttuumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 2211XX CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
CChhaammoommiillllaa 2211XX HHyyppeerriiccuumm ppeerrffoorraattuumm 2211XX
CChheelliiddoonniiuumm mmaajjuuss 2211XX LLaacchheessiiss mmuuttuuss 2211XX
NNuuxx vvoommiiccaa 5500CC MMiilllleeffoolliiuumm 2211XX
PPaannccrreeaass ssuuiiss 2211XX VVaalleerriiaannaa 2211XX
LLyyccooppooddiiuumm 220000CC
ZZiinnggiibbeerr 2211XX
CHAVITA® 4
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
AAuurruumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 2211XX
CCrraattaaeegguuss 2211XX
CCeettrraarriiaa 2211XX
EEuuccaallyyppttuuss gglloobbuulluuss 2211XX
FFeerrrruumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 5500CC
TThhyymmuuss ggllaanndd 2211XX
ZZiinnccuumm vvaalleerriiaanniiccuumm 220000CC
=== PAGE 16 ===
COMPOSITION AND INDICATION FOR THE FOUR
ACUTE AGENTS AND GEOVITA®
In Psychosomatic Energetics, there are four homeopathic SIMVITA®
complexes which are designated as „Acute Agents“. As the
term „acute“ indicates, these are medications administered
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
for acute application, which are either indicated purely
CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
symptomatically or additionally with PSE therapy, in order
CChhaammoommiillllaa 220000CC
to better get through the difficult initial phase, say, of an
EEpphheeddrraa vvuullggaarriiss 3300XX
anxiety disorder. In addition, there is a special mixture for
SSeeccaallee ccoorrnnuuttuumm 1122XX
exhaustion states due to geopathic stress and other causes.
Indication in the homeopathic sense: sympathicotonic
ANXIOVITA®
conditions, acute inflammation; pathophysiological signs
are mydriasis, restlessness and drivenness, skin reddening
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
and perspiration. Simvita for harmonizing simpathicotonic
AAccoonniittuumm nnaappeelllluuss 1188LLMM
conditions (such as diarrhea, cardiac arrhythmia, hypotonia,
AAnnaaccaarrddiiuumm oorriieennttaallee 1122XX
restlessness, perspiration).
CCeerreebbrruumm 220000CC
HHyyppeerriiccuumm ppeerrffoorraattuumm 2211XX
PARAVITA®
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
Indication in the homeopathic sense: To ease anxiety and CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
relieve tension. For all anxiety diseases, particularly as an FFoorrmmiiccaa rruuffaa 1122XX
acute agent for panic and phobias SSuullpphhuurr 220000CC
VVeessppaa ccrraabbrroo 3300XX
NEUROVITA®
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
Indication in the homeopathic sense: parasympathicotonic
AAmmbbrraa ggrriisseeaa 2211XX
conditions, chronic inflammation; pathophysiological signs
CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
are miosis, cramps, fatigue and exhaustion, dry pale skin.
CCiinncchhoonnaa 5500CC
Paravita for vagotonia (e.g. constipation, cramps, hypotonia,
CCuupprruumm aacceettiiccuumm 220000CC
upper abdominal symptoms and shivering).
MMeelliissssaa ooffffiicciinnaalliiss 44XX
PPhhoosspphhoorruuss 1122LLMM
GEOVITA®
CCoommppoossiittiioonn::
Indication in the homeopathic sense: For sedation and to CCeerreebbrruumm 2211XX
relieve tension. In cases of severe nervous tension states, CCuupprruumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 2211XX
also serves as „homeopathic neuroleptic“ and is also suitable FFeerrrruumm mmeettaalllliiccuumm 66XX
for energetically caused pain states. FFoorrmmiiccuumm aacciidduumm 2211XX
SSiilliicceeaa 1122XX
Indication in the homeopathic sense: chronic exhaustion
states, especially in cases of geopathic stress burden, to
avoid relocation reactions, electrosmog.
=== PAGE 17 ===
Dosage Placing Orders - Therapists
The medications are all available in drop form, 50ml droplet Please contact our distributor Privia Naturals for USA and
vials in blue glass, prescription only. Canada. All our remedies and the following accessories are
available there:
Unless otherwise prescribed: 2 x daily 12 drops placed
directly on the tongue; for sensitive patients, mix the daily Rebapad®-Test Device, in portable hard-shell case, for ener-
dosage in a bottle of water and drink throughout the day. gy testing of psychosomatic disturbances.
For children, the usual dosage is 2 x daily 6 drops; for small Basic Test Kit (40 ampoules)
children, one drop for every year of age. Reba® Test Kit(50 ampoules)
In the suppository form, exactly as many suppositories are Organ Test Kit (35 ampoules)
taken as the drop count. Supplementary Test Kit (contains 3 each of Brunler-Bovis, 3
Geovita, 1Phos. D12 ampoule)
Acute remedies and Geovita® : 2 x 12 drops; for acute symp- Character Type Test Kit (5 test ampoules)
toms 5 drops several times per day, even more if necessary. Empty Test Kit for 40 or 75 ampoules
Patient information (to be handed out to patients)
PSE pamphlet (to be handed out to patients)
General Information: Patient pamphlet with Mini-DVD
It is strongly recommended that the remedies not be tried
haphazardly, on the off-chance that they might work. The
experience of Psychosomatic Energetics is that it has to do
with harmonization on all subtle energy levels – Vital, Emoti-
Privia Naturals LLC
onal, Mental and Causal.
+1(986) 203-6974
info@privianaturals.com
There are thus far no known side effects. four mental ail-
ments, the Emotional remedies do not replace any medical
or psychotherapeutic care, and in particular when it comes
to serious psychiatric illness, they do not replace proper
therapy.
=== PAGE 18 ===
BIBLIOGRAPHY
A. B. C. D.
E. F. G. H.
A. New Life Through Energy Healing: E. Rubimed Patient Guide
The Atlas of Psychosomatic Energetics
The Rubimed Patient Guide is designed for patient use. It
By Dr. Reimar Banis, M.D. contains an explanation of the basic concepts of Rubimed
This book enlightens us with information on life energy, the therapy and summarizes each the Rubimed remedies with
aura and chakras and their exceptional significance for health associated positive affirmations.
and finding meaning in life. In addition, in depth details on
emotional conflicts, character typing, Psychosomatic Energe- F. New Vitality Through Energy Medicine
tics (PSE) and Rubimed therapy are discussed.
By Dr. Reimar Banis, M.D.
B. Psychosomatic Energetics: Relief from Blockages and Pathogenic Energies
Also available as an ebook from Books on Demand
A Manual for Therapists
(https://www.bod.de/buchshop/)
By Dr. Reimar Banis, M.D.
G. Psychosomatic Energetics Textbook
An essential manual for therapists with detailed information
on Rubimed therapy, Psychosomatic Energetics and the Reba®
By Dr. Reimar Banis, M.D.
device. Both theoretical and therapeutic perspectives are
Also available as an ebook from Books on Demand
discussed.
(https://www.bod.de/buchshop/)
C. Handbook of Psychosomatic Energetics
H.Reader of Psychosomatic Energetics Volume 2
By Dr. Ulrike Banis, M.D.
By Dr. Reimar Banis, M.D.
An introduction to Rubimed therapy and Psychosomatic
Also available as an ebook from Books on Demand
Energetics, with multiple case examples for all of the Rubimed
(https://www.bod.de/buchshop/)
remedies.
D. Geopathic Stress and
What You Can Do About It
By Dr. Ulrike Banis, M.D.
Details what geopathic stress is, the impact of geopathic
stress on our health and how to resolve it.
=== PAGE 19 ===
PSYCHOSOMATIC ENERGETICS
Emotional Conflicts and Associated Energy Centers
from Dr. Reimar Banis
7 28 Wrong thinking
7
27 Unwilling to face reality
26 Materialistic 6
25 Mistrust
6 24 Uneasiness
23 Tense 5
22 Restless
21 Physical overexertion
20 Self-sufficient
4
19 Timid
5 18 Hasty
17 Emotional emptiness
3
4 16 Panic
2
15 Apprehensive
14 Introverted
13 Withdrawn 1
12 mental overexertion
3 11 Craving good feelings
10 Wanting more
9 Pent up emotions
8 Isolated
7 Show of strength
2
6 Preserverance
5 Hectic
1 4 Extreme self-control
3 Loss of control
2 Lack of concentration
1 Independence
=== PAGE 20 ===
PPUUBBLLIISSHHEERR::
RRUUBBIIMMEEDD UUSSAA IINNCC..
IINNFFOO@@RRUUBBIIMMEEDD..CCOOMM
WWWWWW..RRUUBBIIMMEEDD..CCOOMM
INNOVATION FROM SWITZERLAND